The President: Okay,
thank you very much.
For almost six decades,
NASA's work has inspired
millions and millions
of Americans to imagine
distant worlds and a
better future,
right here on Earth.
I am delighted to sign
this bill - it's been
a long time since a bill
like this has been signed,
reaffirming our national
commitment to the core
mission of NASA.
Human space exploration,
space science, and technology.
With this legislation, we
support NASA's scientists,
engineers, astronauts,
and their pursuit of discovery.
We support jobs, it's
about jobs also.
This bill calls for
ongoing medical monitoring
and treatment of our
heroic astronauts for
health conditions that
result from their service.
It's a pretty tough job, I
don't know Ted, would you
like to do it?
I don't think I would.
Mark, do you
want to do it?
(laughter)
I'm not sure we
want to do it.
Senator Cruz: You could
send Congress to space.
(laughter)
The President:
What a great idea.
That could be a mission.
(laughter)
This bill will make sure
that NASA's most important
and effective programs
are sustained.
It orders NASA to
continue, and it does --
it orders just that, to
continue transitioning
activities to the commercial sector where we have seen
great progress.
It's amazing
what's going on.
So many people in so many
companies are so
into exactly what
NASA stands for.
So, the commercial and the
private sector will get
to use these facilities.
And I hope they're going
to be paying us a lot of money.
That they're going to
make great progress.
It continues support
for the commercial crew
program, which will carry
American astronauts
into space from American
soil once again.
Been a long time.
It supports NASA's deep
space exploration,
including the space launch system and the Orient
space craft.
It advances space science
by maintaining a balanced
set of missions and
activities to explore
our solar system and the
entire universe.
And it ensures that
through NASA's astronauts
and aeronautics research,
the United States will
remain a total
leader in aviation.
Now, these astronauts
are amazing.
I've met some of them,
they are very brave people
and they're right
at the forefront.
So, we salute them
with this legislation.
And we salute the ones
that have lost their lives
doing what they
love to do.
America's space program
has been a blessing to our
people and to
the entire world.
Almost half a century ago,
our brave astronauts first
planted the American
flag on the moon.
That was a big moment
in our history.
Now, this nation is ready to be the first in space once again.
Today, we're taking the
initial steps toward
a bold and bright new future
for American space flight.
I am honored to
sign this new bill.
The folks behind me have
been so involved in it.
They love NASA, they love
everything it stands for,
and they love the
people in their areas.
You have a couple of areas that are going to be very benefit --
very much benefitted by this.
So, I just want to thank all of the people standing behind me.
They've done a great
service for the country
and to their communities.
It's a lot of jobs, and
these are great jobs.
So, thank you very much
and we'll sign this.
Okay, so, we'll
hold that up.
Lot of pages, look at
the pages in there.
That's a lot.
(laughter)
We don't want to
let that slip.
(applause)
Who else should get these,
Mr. Vice President?
Okay, I have two left.
Who else?
Bill?
Male Speaker: Mr.
President, on behalf
of NASA, I'd like to
present you with this vest --
astronaut flight jacket.
Thank you very much
for your support.
(applause)
The President:
Thank you very much.
Does anybody have
anything to say?
Ted, do you want
to say something?
Senator Cruz: Well,
this is terrific.
The first time in seven
years we've had a NASA
authorization bill.
Thank you, Mr. President,
for signing it.
This means a great deal to the nation's space exploration.
It means a great deal to
the state of Texas,
and it continues America's
leadership in space.
So, thank you for
your leadership.
The President:
Thank you, Ted.
Marco?
Senator Rubio: I just
think I'm happy to see
that Florida is going to
continue to do more than
Texas is in NASA.
(laughter)
The President Going to be
a good competition right, Kevin?
Mr. Vice President?
The Vice President:
Senator Nelson perhaps,
Mr. President?
The President:
Okay, Senator?
Oh, he's a Democrat, I
wasn't going to let him speak.
(laughter)
He does love NASA.
Senator Nelson: It puts
us on the dual track.
We have to commercial
companies going to
and from the international
space station, and we have
NASA going out and
exploring the heavens.
And we're going to Mars.
The President:
Good, I love that.
Representative Culberson: Just as a -- Mr. President, if I may.
Just as Americans remember
that President Eisenhower
was the father of the
Interstate highway system,
with your bill signing
today and your vision
and leadership, future
generations will remember
that President Donald
Trump was the father
of the interplanetary
highway system.
The President: Well,
that sounds exciting.
(laughter)
First, we want to
fix our highways.
We're going to
(applause)
fix our highways.
Representative Babin:
Mr. President?
The President: Yes?
Representative Babin: As
the House Subcommittee Chair,
I'd like to --
and actually part of the
author of TREAT Act for
our astronauts, that
started in a meeting with
Astronaut Scott Kelly
after he got back from
nearly a year in space.
And I said, "What can we do for
you in the House of Representatives?"
He said, "Take care of us,
make sure we're hanging
on to this data so that
future astronauts will be
treated right and will
know what to do and make
the proper adjustments for
folks when they're up
in -- up there in the
ISS and beyond.
So, I want to thank
everybody here, thank
these astronauts who've
put their lives on the line.
The President:
Thank you very much.
Thank you, everybody.
Mike, go ahead.
The Vice President:
Excuse me, for a moment.
I just want to, on behalf
of the President and all
of us, I want to thank
all of these members
of Congress, these courageous astronauts for their work
on this.
But to assure you that in
very short order that
the President will be taking
action to relaunch the
National Space Council,
and he's asked me to share
that as Vice Presidents
have in the past.
And we're going to be
bringing together the best
and the brightest in NASA
and also in the private sector.
We have elected a builder
for President, and as he
said, America once again
is to start building
and leading to the stars.
So, thank you,
Mr. President.
The President: Thank
you, everybody.
(applause)